README.md, before:

# CPL OASIS demonstrator
Demonstrator for CPL OASIS NEMO test configuration.
Modifications needed to run the CPL_DEMONSTRATOR for NEMO5 

Slurm or PBC. Sometimes we have to mess around the order of executables called. For some architecture call nemo, xios and toyatm (in this order) for some other xios is called last. 


## Getting started
### Prerequisites

You will need to have an installation of OASIS3-MCT, and a version of XIOS3 which has been compiled for OASIS. 

To compile XIOS3 for use with OASIS, do 

```
./make_xios --prod --use_oasis oasis3_mct --arch your_Arch_file --full --job 8
```

## Download and compile NEMO

This demonstrator is for NEMO v5.0.1.

To install this version, do 

```
git clone --branch 5.0.1 https://forge.nemo-ocean.eu/nemo/nemo.git nemo_5.0.1
```
### Clone this Demonstrator repository
This demonstrator includes an updated version of the CPL_OASIS test case, so next we will need to clone the repository.

```
git clone https://github.com/alwalsh3/CPL_OASIS_demo.git
```

### Copy new CPL_OASIS and compile
Navigate to the location of the test coniguration CPL_OASIS:

```
cd /nemo_5.0.1/tests/
```
Then, from the clone of this repository that you have made, copy the CPL_OASIS directory to `/nemo_5.0.1/tests/` (overwriting the version there by default).

We are now ready to compile the CPL_OASIS test case. To do this, navigate to the NEMO home directory `/nemo_5.0.1/` (the one which contains `makenemo`), and run the command

```
./makenemo -a CPL_OASIS -n MYCPL_OASIS -m your_Arch_file -j 8
```
**NOTE:** You must ensure you have the same software enivornment loaded when you compile NEMO as you did when you compiled XIOS3 and OASIS

We have included example Arch files from two HPCs in `/CPL_OASIS_demo/support_files/`.

## Download forcing data
We need to get the ORCA2 ancilliary files which can be downloaded from here:

```
wget "https://gws-access.jasmin.ac.uk/public/nemo/sette_inputs/r5.0.0/ORCA2_ICE_v5.0.0.tar.gz"
```

Unzip the directory, and make a note of the location you have saved it (this will need to be added to the runscript later).


## TOYATM and TOYWAV compilation

This test case using a toy atmosphere model (and later toy wave model also) to couple to NEMO. We will need to compile the latest version of these toy models. First, copy the TOYATM and TOYWAV directories from this repository that you have cloned to `/nemo_5.0.1/tools/`. This will overwrite the default TOYATM, and add TOYWAV. 

Now we compile them. Ensure you are in the `/nemo_5.0.1/tools/` and run:

```
./maketools -n TOYATM -m your_Arch_file
```

```
./maketools -n TOYWAV -m your_Arch_file
```

**NOTE:** You must ensure you have the same software enivornment loaded when you compile TOYATM and TOYWAV as for when you compiled NEMO. 


# Test case 1: Couple NEMO to TOYATM

The updated CPL_OASIS test case that you have compiled is now almost ready to run. One additional step is to add a job script and update for your machine. Navigate to `/nemo_5.0.1/tests/MYCPL_OASIS/EXPO0/` and copy an example job script from this repository. We have included examples from a SLURM and PBS based HPC. To copy (using the PBS example),

```
cp /CPL_OASIS_demo/support_files/job_run_CPL_OASIS_ATM_UKMO_PBS .
```
There are a number of changes you will need to make to set up the job script. Update the paths of CONFIG_DIR, WORK, DATADIR, TOYATM_DIR, XIOS_DIR to the paths on your system.

It should now be ready to submit, e.g. for PBS do

```
qsub job_run_CPL_OASIS_ATM_UKMO_PBS
```
or for SLURM, 

```
sbatch job_run_CPL_OASIS_ATM_NOC_SLURM
```

The output should be located in the WORK directory you specified in the job script (`$WORK/OUT/CPLTESTCASE/$XXD`). You can check if the model ran to completion by checking

```
cat time.step
```
and it should say `160` - which is the total length of this test run.

There should also be a number of netCDF files produced, one for each NEMO grid, e.g. `ORCA2_5d_00010101_00010110_grid_T.nc`.


# Test case 2: Couple NEMO to TOYATM and TOYWAV

We can now try coupling NEMO to two different models: a toy atmosphere (`TOYATM`) and a toy wave model (`TOYWAV`). We will use the same test configuration `CPL_OASIS`, and create a new configuration `MYCPL_OASIS_ATMWAV` for this example:

```
./makenemo -a CPL_OASIS -n MYCPL_OASIS_ATMWAV -m your_Arch_file -j 8
```

Before submitting our job, we need to make some changes. Navigate to the configuration directory `/nemo_5.0.1/tests/MYCPL_OASIS_ATMWAV/EXPO0/`. From the support files from this repository, copy the namelist `namlelist_cfg_ATMWAV` and rename to just `namelist_cfg` (since this is what will be picked up by NEMO). 

```
cp /CPL_OASIS_demo/support_files/namelist_cfg_ATMWAV .
mv namelist_cfg_ATMWAV namelist_cfg
```

As before, we also need to copy a job script. For example,

```
cp /CPL_OASIS_demo/support_files/job_run_CPL_OASIS_ATMWAV_UKMO_PBS .
```
Note that this is different to the job script used in Test case 1. Update the job script for your machine, and submit.


# Debugging tips

* From testing, we found that different machines may be sensitive to the order of the executables in the run command (e.g. `mpiexec`) in the job script. If NEMO hangs when you submit your job, try reordering the XIOS3 executable and try again.

Commit message:

Updated description on outputs generated.

README.md, after:

# CPL OASIS demonstrator
Demonstrator for CPL OASIS NEMO test configuration.
Modifications needed to run the CPL_DEMONSTRATOR for NEMO5 

Slurm or PBC. Sometimes we have to mess around the order of executables called. For some architecture call nemo, xios and toyatm (in this order) for some other xios is called last. 


## Getting started
### Prerequisites

You will need to have an installation of OASIS3-MCT, and a version of XIOS3 which has been compiled for OASIS. 

To compile XIOS3 for use with OASIS, do 

```
./make_xios --prod --use_oasis oasis3_mct --arch your_Arch_file --full --job 8
```

## Download and compile NEMO

This demonstrator is for NEMO v5.0.1.

To install this version, do 

```
git clone --branch 5.0.1 https://forge.nemo-ocean.eu/nemo/nemo.git nemo_5.0.1
```
### Clone this Demonstrator repository
This demonstrator includes an updated version of the CPL_OASIS test case, so next we will need to clone the repository.

```
git clone https://github.com/alwalsh3/CPL_OASIS_demo.git
```

### Copy new CPL_OASIS and compile
Navigate to the location of the test coniguration CPL_OASIS:

```
cd /nemo_5.0.1/tests/
```
Then, from the clone of this repository that you have made, copy the CPL_OASIS directory to `/nemo_5.0.1/tests/` (overwriting the version there by default).

We are now ready to compile the CPL_OASIS test case. To do this, navigate to the NEMO home directory `/nemo_5.0.1/` (the one which contains `makenemo`), and run the command

```
./makenemo -a CPL_OASIS -n MYCPL_OASIS -m your_Arch_file -j 8
```
**NOTE:** You must ensure you have the same software enivornment loaded when you compile NEMO as you did when you compiled XIOS3 and OASIS

We have included example Arch files from two HPCs in `/CPL_OASIS_demo/support_files/`.

## Download forcing data
We need to get the ORCA2 ancilliary files which can be downloaded from here:

```
wget "https://gws-access.jasmin.ac.uk/public/nemo/sette_inputs/r5.0.0/ORCA2_ICE_v5.0.0.tar.gz"
```

Unzip the directory, and make a note of the location you have saved it (this will need to be added to the runscript later).


## TOYATM and TOYWAV compilation

This test case using a toy atmosphere model (and later toy wave model also) to couple to NEMO. We will need to compile the latest version of these toy models. First, copy the TOYATM and TOYWAV directories from this repository that you have cloned to `/nemo_5.0.1/tools/`. This will overwrite the default TOYATM, and add TOYWAV. 

Now we compile them. Ensure you are in the `/nemo_5.0.1/tools/` and run:

```
./maketools -n TOYATM -m your_Arch_file
```

```
./maketools -n TOYWAV -m your_Arch_file
```

**NOTE:** You must ensure you have the same software enivornment loaded when you compile TOYATM and TOYWAV as for when you compiled NEMO. 


# Test case 1: Couple NEMO to TOYATM

The updated CPL_OASIS test case that you have compiled is now almost ready to run. One additional step is to add a job script and update for your machine. Navigate to `/nemo_5.0.1/tests/MYCPL_OASIS/EXPO0/` and copy an example job script from this repository. We have included examples from a SLURM and PBS based HPC. To copy (using the PBS example),

```
cp /CPL_OASIS_demo/support_files/job_run_CPL_OASIS_ATM_UKMO_PBS .
```
There are a number of changes you will need to make to set up the job script. Update the paths of CONFIG_DIR, WORK, DATADIR, TOYATM_DIR, XIOS_DIR to the paths on your system.

It should now be ready to submit, e.g. for PBS do

```
qsub job_run_CPL_OASIS_ATM_UKMO_PBS
```
or for SLURM, 

```
sbatch job_run_CPL_OASIS_ATM_NOC_SLURM
```

The output should be located in the WORK directory you specified in the job script (`$WORK/OUT/CPLTESTCASE/$XXD`). You can check if the model ran to completion by checking

```
cat time.step
```
and it should say `160` - which is the total length of this test run.

There should also be a number of netCDF files produced, one for each NEMO grid, e.g. `ORCA2_5d_00010101_00010110_grid_T.nc` produced by NEMO. 

Some output files will be generated by OASIS these are generated for each variables exchanged between the component models and appended at every coupling time step. For each variable two corresponding files are generated in the native grids of the component models. 

We can supress it by editing the namcouple file in `TOYATM/EXP/namcouple` by replacing every EXPOUT calls with EXPORTED. In a real experiment these files are a good source for debuging and ensuring the quality of data exchanged. 


# Test case 2: Couple NEMO to TOYATM and TOYWAV

We can now try coupling NEMO to two different models: a toy atmosphere (`TOYATM`) and a toy wave model (`TOYWAV`). We will use the same test configuration `CPL_OASIS`, and create a new configuration `MYCPL_OASIS_ATMWAV` for this example:

```
./makenemo -a CPL_OASIS -n MYCPL_OASIS_ATMWAV -m your_Arch_file -j 8
```

Before submitting our job, we need to make some changes. Navigate to the configuration directory `/nemo_5.0.1/tests/MYCPL_OASIS_ATMWAV/EXPO0/`. From the support files from this repository, copy the namelist `namlelist_cfg_ATMWAV` and rename to just `namelist_cfg` (since this is what will be picked up by NEMO). 

```
cp /CPL_OASIS_demo/support_files/namelist_cfg_ATMWAV .
mv namelist_cfg_ATMWAV namelist_cfg
```

As before, we also need to copy a job script. For example,

```
cp /CPL_OASIS_demo/support_files/job_run_CPL_OASIS_ATMWAV_UKMO_PBS .
```
Note that this is different to the job script used in Test case 1. Update the job script for your machine, and submit.


# Debugging tips

* From testing, we found that different machines may be sensitive to the order of the executables in the run command (e.g. `mpiexec`) in the job script. If NEMO hangs when you submit your job, try reordering the XIOS3 executable and try again.
